OpenAI Sora's Breaks Our Brains, Vision Pro Loses Its Luster, and More Big Tech News

The world seemingly, at the same time, held its breath with the reveal of OpenAI’s video generator, Sora, It’s as if everyone watching these marvelous fake videos realized that maybe technology had gone too far. Apple Vision Pro was supposed to be that realit…The world seemingly, at the same time, held its breath with the reveal of OpenAI’s video generator, Sora, It’s as if everyone watching these marvelous fake videos realized that maybe technology had gone too far. Apple Vision Pro was supposed to be that reality-changing tech but instead, tech bros wanted to return the headset before the return policy expired. Check out the rest of this week’s biggest tech news stories. 2 / 12Thousands of people lined up outside Apple Stores on Feb. 2 to see the Vision Pro’s stunning debut, but dissatisfied customers are returning their headsets this week. Why? Apple’s 14-day return period expires on Feb. 16  for day one Vision Pro users. It looks like these bros kept their receipts, from Apple, and are making sure everyone on X understands their plight. - Maxwell Zeff Read More3 / 12It seems the stainless steel panels of the Tesla Cybertruck are not really stain “less,” and are turning out to be no less susceptible to stains than stainless kitchen appliances, which easily develop grease and water stains. Some Tesla Cybertruck owners are reporting persistent orange stains on the exterior of their EVs, which could be early signs of rust and corrosion, according to Futurism. - José Rodríguez Jr. Read More4 / 12After causing a stir by mysteriously grounding its new Airbus A321neo planes on Monday, United Airlines wants people to know the decision has nothing to do with safety and isn’t even that exciting. Rather, it has to do with the aircrafts’ “No Smoking” signs, which are required by a 1990 rule to be operated by the flight crew. - Jody Serrano Read More5 / 12Apple computer owners have long felt free to roam the internet without a care in the world. You float out of the Apple Store with a white box that perfectly slides apart when you open it at your home, and inside is your impenetrable, space-grey fortress of solitude with an Apple logo just waiting to shine for you. Prevailing wisdom would have you believe that Apple’s Macs are completely immune from viruses. However, Macs absolutely can get viruses. - Maxwell Zeff Read More6 / 12Lonely on Valentine’s Day? AI can help. At least, that’s what a number of companies hawking “romantic” chatbots will tell you. But as your robot love story unfolds, there’s a tradeoff you may not realize you’re making. According to a new study from Mozilla’s *Privacy Not Included project, AI girlfriends and boyfriends harvest shockingly personal information, and almost all of them sell or share the data they collect.  - Thomas Germain Read More7 / 1223andMe is in a death spiral. Almost everyone who wants a DNA test already bought one, a nightmare data breach ruined the company’s reputation, and 23andMe’s stock is so close to worthless it might get kicked off the Nasdaq. CEO Anne Wojcicki is on a crisis tour, promising investors the company isn’t going out of business because she has a new plan: 23andMe is going to double down on mining your DNA data and selling it to pharmaceutical companies.  - Thomas Germain Read More8 / 12OpenAI introduced Sora, its premier text-to-video generator, on Thursday with beautiful, shockingly realistic videos showcasing the AI model’s capabilities. Sora is now available to a small number of researchers and creatives who will test the model before a broader public release, which could spell disaster for the film industry and our collective deepfake problem. - Maxwell Zeff Read More9 / 12Everybody knows that online disinformation is a huge problem—one that has arguably torn communities apart, manipulated elections, and caused certain segments of the global population to lose their minds. Of course, nobody seems particularly concerned about actually fixing this problem. In fact, the institutions most responsible for online disinformation (and thus, the ones most well-placed to do something about it)—that is to say, tech companies—seem intent on doing everything they can to make the problem exponentially worse. - Lucas Ropek Read More10 / 12AI and cryptocurrency made Nvidia one of the world’s most valuable companies, but the future is murky.11 / 12Coindesk’s Andy Baehr says Bitcoin is just a normal, bread and butter investment now.12 / 12