Don't use smartwatches and rings that claim to measure blood sugar without needles, the FDA warns

The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday issued a safety communication warning people to stay way from smartwatches and smart rings that claim to measure blood sugar levels without pricking the skin. “The FDA has not authorized, cleared, or approved any …The Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday issued a safety communication warning people to stay way from smartwatches and smart rings that claim to measure blood sugar levels without pricking the skin. “The FDA has not authorized, cleared, or approved any smartwatch or smart ring that is intended to measure or estimate blood glucose values on its own,” the agency wrote in the communication, and asked consumers, patients, and caregivers to stay away from such devices.Non invasive blood sugar monitoring isn’t currently possible on any consumer device Popular wearables like the Apple Watch and the Oura ring can, instead, pair with FDA-authorized wearable devices like the Dexcom G7, which uses needles to read your blood sugar levels. Getting a smartwatch or a smart ring to monitor blood sugar levels without penetrating the skin would represent a huge medical advance, allowing people with diabetes, for instance, to stop pricking themselves each day, and alerting pre-diabetics.Both Apple and Samsung have reportedly been working on the tech for years. Last year, Bloomberg reported that Apple’s no-prick monitoring was at a “proof-of-concept stage” and could come to the market once the company managed to figure out how to shrink its size. Apple has been working on the project since 2010, although it will likely still be years before the technology is small enough to be built into the Apple Watch. Samsung, too, is exploring ways to build the technology into the Galaxy Ring, a product that the company recently announced.Until that time, be skeptical of any device that claims to do this right now. Current smartwatches and smart rings “do not directly test blood glucose levels,” the FDA writes. If you spot any company selling a device with these claims, you can report it to the FDA through the agency’s MedWatch Voluntary Reporting Form.A group of lawmakers have introduced a new bill that would force ByteDance to sell TikTok in order for the app to remain available in the United States.Microsoft is pulling the plug on Android apps for Windows. The company is ending support for Windows Subsystem for Android, the underlying component behind the Amazon Appstore in Windows 11.Microsoft may debut its first 'AI PCs' later this month. According to a report, the Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6 will support new AI functions that are slated to hit Windows 11 later this year.Amid complaints about its search results declining in quality, Google is tweaking its algorithms to do a better job of weeding out spammy or automated content. The company says the ranking updates, arriving in May, will “keep the lowest-quality content out of search.”Here's a list of the best budget laptops you can buy, as chosen by Engadget editors.Apple has released iOS 17.4 and iPadOS 17.4, which will enable official support for third-party app stores for the first time — but only in the EU. Updates elsewhere include podcast transcription and new emoji.Samsung's 32-inch M80C smart monitor is $300 off right now, bringing the price down to $400 from $700. This is a record-low price for the 2023 display.Google’s Waze is adding some quality-of-life navigation features in the coming weeks and months. New options can help you find parking garages, alert you when the speed limit is about to decrease and guide you through roundabouts.The EU’s Digital Markets Act (DMA) is officially in effect and Google just detailed exactly what the law means for the company. It outlined all of the changes being instituted as a result of the DMA.Meta apps Facebook, Instagram, and Threads all experienced outages on Tuesday morning.Max will soon join Netflix and Disney in cracking down on account sharing.The Marshall Middleton, a four-pound, 50-watt portable Bluetooth speaker, is cheaper than ever right now.Netflix has revealed when its subscribers can play Hades, widely hailed as one of the best game of all time, on iOS at no extra cost. Developer Supergiant Games spent over a year refining the touch controls and optimizing the roguelite for mobile ahead of the March 19 release.A number of Samsung microSD cards we like are back on sale, including the 512GB Samsung Evo Select for an all-time low of $25.Here's a list of the best webcams you can buy for your laptop or desktop, plus advice on how to choose the right one for you.MLB The Show 24 will let you create and play as women ballplayers for the first time in the series. This year's edition will arrive on March 19.Apple's last MacBook Air is one of the best ultraportables ever made. And now, thanks to the M3, it's a lot cheaper.The Right To Repair Act passed the house and senate in Oregon. It's the first of its kind to ban parts pairing.1Password has launched passkey on Android apps. It came to iOS and browsers last fall.Microsoft has filed a motion seeking to dismiss key parts of a lawsuit The New York Times filed against the company and Open AI, accusing them of copyright infringement.Subscribe to our two newsletters: - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals - A daily dose of the news you needPlease enter a valid email addressPlease select a newsletterBy subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.